---
title: Mac
date: 2021-09-28 20:46:18
permalink: /pages/b8b94f/
---

# Mac

- 复制`pygments`的高亮代码到剪贴板。[高亮主题](https://help.farbox.com/pygments.html)

```bash
pygmentize -O full,style=colorful -f rtf test.py | pbcopy
```

## 快捷键

[官方文档](https://support.apple.com/en-hk/HT201236)

图标 | 键名
---  | ---
⌘    | Command (Cmd)
⇧   | Shift
⌥    | Option (Alt)
⌃    | Control (Ctrl)
⇪    | Caps Lock

快捷键                        | 说明
---                           | ---
Control-Command-F             | 全屏
Shift-Command-3               | 截全屏
Shift-Command-4               | 截图
Option-Command-Power button | 休眠
Control-Shift-Power button  | 关闭显示器
Option-Command-Esc | 强制关闭应用
Command-Comma (,) | 当前程序偏好设置

## Finder快捷键

快捷键                        | 说明
---                           | ---
Command-I | Show the Get Info window for a selected file.
Shift-Command-C | Open the Computer window.
Shift-Command-G | Open a Go to Folder window.
Shift-Command-H | Open the Home folder of the current macOS user account.
Shift-Command-K | Open the Network window.
Option-Command-L | Open the Downloads folder.
Shift-Command-N | Create a new folder.
Shift-Command-R | Open the AirDrop window.
Option-Command-D | Show or hide the Dock.
Command-K | Open the Connect to Server window.
Command-N | Open a new Finder window.
Command-T | Show or hide the tab bar when a single tab is open in the current Finder window.
Option-Command-V | Move: Move the files in the Clipboard from their original location to the current location.
Command-Y | Use Quick Look to preview the selected files.
Option-Command-Y | View a Quick Look slideshow of the selected files.
Command-Left Bracket ([) | Go to the previous folder.
Command-Right Bracket (]) | Go to the next folder.
Command-Up Arrow | Open the folder that contains the current folder.
Command-Control-Up Arrow | Open the folder that contains the current folder in a new window.
Command-Down Arrow | Open the selected item.
Right Arrow | Open the selected folder. This works only when in list view.
Left Arrow | Close the selected folder. This works only when in list view.
Command-Delete | Move the selected item to the Trash.
Shift-Command-Delete | Empty the Trash.
Option-Shift-Command-Delete | Empty the Trash without confirmation dialog.
Command-Mission Control | Show the desktop. 
Control-Down Arrow | Show all windows of the front app.
Option-Keyboard Brightness Up | Open Keyboard preferences. This works with either Keyboard Brightness key.
Option-Shift-Keyboard Brightness Up or Option-Shift-Keyboard Brightness Down | Adjust the keyboard brightness in smaller steps.
Option key while double-clicking | Open the item in a separate window, then close the original window.
Command key while double-clicking | Open a folder in a separate tab or window.
Command key while dragging to another volume | Move the dragged item to the other volume, instead of copying it. 
Option key while dragging | Copy the dragged item. The pointer changes while you drag the item.
Option-click a disclosure triangle | Open all folders within the selected folder. This works only when in list view.
Command-click a window title | See the folders that contain the current folder.
